Terra Nova H.Q., this is Foster.
I just pulled up
at communications relay station
19-A.
Copy that. Commence repair.
Roger that.
Smithson, is that you?
You sleeping off another bender
in there,
or did you lock
yourself in again?
Smithson, wake up.
Smithson?
Yeah, it looks pretty straight
forward happened here to me.
Foster made the mistake of leaving
the shed door open while he was working.
Must have snuck up behind him.
Never saw it coming.
What did it to him?
Nykoraptor. Bite marks on the
torso were a dead giveaway.
They've got three rows
of incisors.
Nykos are vicious.
Basically two-legged sharks.
Easy with him.
Do they hunt around here?
No, no, not usually.
But these Ankylosaur nests...
- Their eggs are easy prey.
- With easy prey nearby,
why'd the Nyko go after a human?
You got an endless
supply of chicken...
Doesn't mean you're going to
turn your nose up
at a bloody rare steak.
Good morning, Josh.
I need to talk to you for a sec
about our arrangement.
There's been
a complication.
It's about your girl.
Kara? We had a deal.
You told me you could get her
here on one of the next pilgrimages.
Like I said, there's been
a complication.
Now if you want me
to get her here,
you're going to have
to do something.
I'm listening.
You might want a shot
of courage first.
Hey.
Hi.
Good morning.
What brings you to my end
of the compound?
Oh, well, Jim
asked me
to autopsy this soldier
that was killed.
See if anything out
of the ordinary turned up.
I won't distract you.
Okay.
Amazing.
Just amazing.
Ankylosaurus.
Where'd you get it?
In a nest near
the scene of the accident.
Oh, wow, looks
pretty damaged.
The others had hatched.
This one, unfortunately,
didn't make it.
But it is an incredible
research opportunity.
I'd say so.
Hey, babe.
Hey.
Hey, Zoe.
Why aren't
you at school?
Well, her teacher
sent for me.
Somebody has
an earache.
Oh. And yesterday it was
your tummy, wasn't it?
I just miss you, Mommy.
I know you do, sweetheart,
but school is
really important.
Look, I need to just have
a quick word with Daddy.
So why don't you go
and take a look
at some of that cool
stuff over there.
Just be careful not to
touch anything, all right?
Go on.
The autopsy turn up anything?
Yeah, I was just in the middle of
something when you came in. Great.
So I found two types of blood
on Foster's torso.
One was his.
And the second's
probably from the Nyko.
Yes, that's what
I was thinking.
Hmm, it says the second type of
blood came from one of those.
I don't understand.
I think I do.
Malcolm.
What's a Nykoraptor's
favorite food?
You're looking at it.
It's a Galesaur.
Sort of a prehistoric turkey.
Why?
I think this was a murder.
Help me out here.
How do you kill a man
with a dinosaur?
You trap it somewhere where you
know the victim's going to show up.
All you need is the right bait and
knowledge of your vic's schedule.
We found blood from
the bait that was used
to lure the Nyko
inside the shed.
And the back
of that door
was covered in scratches from
when it was trying to get out.
We've lost our share of folks,
but never like this.
Not to murder.
Foster was a good soldier.
If somebody killed him,
I want to know who.
Find out. Do it quick
and do it quiet.
Wash, you're on this with him.
First thing, we should
talk to his friends.
A day like today, I think
I know where they'll be.
Boys.
Lieutenant.
Hi, Mr. Shannon.
Hey.
Sorry about Foster.
And I'm sorry to
interrupt you guys.
I know this isn't
a good time,
but I've got a few questions I
need to ask if that's okay? Sure.
Did Foster get along with
everyone in your unit?
Uh, pretty much. Why?
Can you think of anyone who
would have wanted to harm him?
Hold on, you're investigating
this as a murder or something?
I don't
believe this.
You know, Foster was
seeing a woman.
Yeah? What's her name?
I don't know.
None of us do.
He never told us
who she is.
Yeah, but he was always
up in his bunk
looking at pictures
of her on his tag.
I thought they only held
personal info and blood type.
Yeah, plus a medical history
and a locator. You're not
supposed to, but everyone hacks in
and throws a couple of pictures
of loved ones on there.
Maybe some music
for when
you're holed up someplace
or on a long patrol.
Well, thanks, gentlemen,
and again, sorry for your loss.
You find it odd that
this mystery woman
hasn't stepped forward? Now
you're getting the hang of this.
So let's go take a look
at Foster's tag.
Foster's personal effects...
Can we, uh, can we see them?
Well, yeah.
Could you get me the deceased's
personal effects, please.
Thanks.
What's going on?
Well, Foster had
a dog tag...
Be careful! Be, be
very careful with that.
Gently, sweetheart.
Sorry.
It's broken.
Are you trying
to fix it?
The baby wants
to come out.
- My God, it's still alive!
- Who would have thought?!
You're going to help it,
right?
Yeah, of course we are,
sweetheart, yeah.
Hey.
Okay.
A few terras.
A flashlight.
But the tag wasn't recovered.
You said it has a locator.
It's on the move.
Yeah.
A Nyko must
have eaten it.
Then we're going to have
to go get that Nyko.
Shannon, you copy?
Copy.
You two have eyes
on the Nyko?
Negative, sir. We lost it.
Stand by.
Contact! Eyes on target, 9:00!
20 meters!
Good. Flank him to the right.
Swing him back towards me.
Coming your way.
All right, up ahead
is the choke point.
It dead-ends in dense forest.
Force it
into the shooting gallery.
We got you now.
Anybody got a visual?
No joy, sir.
All right, just so we're clear...
We're not killing
this thing, right?
No need. Whatever
we get out of its belly,
we're going to obtain on site.
Lieutenant Washington there is
about the finest combat medic
I've ever had the pleasure to be stitched
up by, isn't that right, Lieutenant?
If you say so, sir.
How many stitches you put
in my side that time?
67, sir.
Yeah.
Where'd it go?
How long can
he stay up there?
You got somewhere you
need to be, Lieutenant?
I'd love not to be here
when the sun sets.
How long can
he stay up there?
We got him.
Open him up.
This was the bait.
And, uh, this is
what else he ate
when he was in the shed.
And here's what we came for.
Foster's tag.
It's pretty banged up.
There he is,
and he's with a woman,
but I don't think
I know her.
We can run a facial rec
against our database.
Damn it to hell.
It's okay, sir.
I recognize her.
She works at the Mess Hall.
Yeah, I know Foster.
I know you, too.
Working in the Mess,
I meet my share of soldiers.
Well, his friends seem to think
it was, um... more than that.
I was nice to him.
Support staff,
it's our job to be nice.
I'm sorry if he took
it the wrong way.
Look at this.
Terra Nova
lottery notification.
How long you guys
been married?
Three years.
And was the wedding before
or after he... got this?
Hmm. So what happened?
You loved him until he got you
through the Portal,
then you traded up
for another man?
I mean, I'm just
spitballing here.
I'm a married woman.
You can't just come in here
and make accusations.
Honey?
Afternoon,
Mr. Milner.
I'm Jim Shannon
from Security.
This is Lieutenant Washington.
Why are you here?
It's about the soldier
who died, Ken Foster.
It's nothing, Howard.
They're just asking
some questions.
Yeah.
Are you okay, Mr. Milner?
You-you seem upset.
I'm fine.
'Cause your wife knew this man
Foster from the Mess Hall.
Of course I do I serve
these guys every day.
Look, I told them this already.
I don't know what the hell
they're still doing here. Shut up.
Just shut up.
Do you think I didn't know?
Do you think I'm a fool?
Well, you're here, right?
You're gonna find out
sooner or later.
I killed
that son of a bitch Foster.
And given the chance,
I'd kill him again.
Hey.
I just dropped Zoe
back at school.
All she could talk
about was this egg.
Please give me
some good news.
Well, I wish I could.
It looks like the reason it
didn't hatch with the others
is that it has birth defects.
You see this dark patch here?
Yeah.
Its front right leg
is fused to its neck,
which has compromised its
windpipe and its blood flow.
And if it were
to hatch now,
it wouldn't get nearly
enough oxygen.
Wouldn't survive
three minutes.
The mother must've
had to abandon it
to care for the other
hatchlings. Yes.
And I'm afraid we have
to abandon it, too.
Oh, no, that's not
gonna work for me.
You saw the look on her face.
No, there must be something
we can do to help it along.
I don't know yet.
Um... in ovo surgery through
the shell if we have to.
There's gotta
be something.
When did you find out that
your wife was having an affair?
I just did
who cares how?
I do.
The shed...
How'd you get it open?
Anything with a circuit board
can be hacked.
But how'd you know his shifts?
That he'd be the one
to get the call?
Well, I tailed him for a week.
That night I went out and broke
the piece of equipment
that caused the repair beacon
to sound.
I tied up some bait
inside the shed.
Then I waited in the rover
until the Nykoraptor came.
When it went after the bait,
I closed the door behind it,
and then I drove away.
Very elaborate.
I mean, you must, you must
really love this woman.
With all my heart.
You can't imagine
what it was like
winning the lottery.
Maybe you both had love
in your lives,
maybe not.
But I haven't.
And then all of a sudden
there was a flood of it.
And the best thing to come along
was Rebecca.
And it was perfect.
You know, coming back
to a world like this...
how could she not love me
for bringing her here?
How could I have been so stupid?
Why didn't I see
that she was using me?
But you know what
the stupidest thing of all was?
Thinking that it could actually
be different for me this time.
You were right.
It was murder.
Lieutenant Washington knows
I expect my people to adhere
to a strict code of honor.
For one of them
to get involved
with a married
Terra Novan, well...
that's not just frowned upon,
I won't tolerate it.
But Foster didn't
deserve to die for it.
Shannon, have you been
out to Memorial Field?
Not yet.
It's beyond the fields
before those low hills.
Simple headstones buried
in the earth.
We have sustained losses...
Fallen soldiers,
accidents,
citizens who succumbed
to syncillic fever.
But we've never had a
murder in Terra Nova.
Unless I commute Milner's
sentence to imprisonment,
the bylaw says banishment.
Out there?
Out there.
I'm going to go
bury our soldier.
And I'm going to
make a decision.
I don't recall ever having
to make a tougher one.
So Boylan said
if I want to get Kara here,
I have to meet with someone.
It's outside the gates.
Why can't you just
meet at the bar?
It's Mira.
Leader of the
Sixers, Mira?
Is there another one? 'Cause if
there is, it'd be pretty awesome
if I just misunderstood this
whole thing.
You can't go.
There's no telling
what she might be up to.
I don't have a choice.
Yes, you do.
Look, I know you
promised Kara,
but it's not worth
getting yourself killed.
You have no idea
what 2149 is like.
I had three friends junior year
that killed themselves.
Nobody believes
they have a future.
in anything anymore.
Nothing means anything.
I have to get her out of there.
Okay.
But you're not going alone.
It was quite moving today.
Sad.
The procession.
Everyone in
the streets.
Can you imagine that
back in Chicago?
No. Honestly, it felt
like something
from another time
we've only ever read about.
So what do you think
will happen tomorrow?
I don't know, but
the good news is,
there's not gonna
be a drawn-out trial.
You don't think
he deserves one?
He confessed. There's something
to be said for swift justice.
But, Jim, come on,
this is wrong.
It's frontier justice
you know that.
You say that like
it's a bad thing,
like I should miss the
system we left behind.
You remember the crap
I dealt with.
Everything moved
iceberg slow,
and I'd work a good
case for months
only to have someone buy
the verdict out from under me.
Yeah, I know,
I know that was bad,
but I fail to see how it's worse
than barbaric decisions
being made by one man alone.
Barbaric?
Yeah.
Okay.
Don't forget Milner's
a confessed killer.
What do you think
we should do with him?
Confine him.
Put him on trial.
And if he's guilty,
then put him in prison,
but try to show some mercy.
I was just in prison.
And "mercy" is not the first
word that comes to mind
when I think back on my time.
Maybe we should talk about this later.
If someone had given me the choice
between an eight-by-eight in
Golad and a chance in the wild
with a gun in my hand, I know
which one I would've picked.
Okay, I didn't think
before I spoke, all right?
I didn't mean it that way.
Maybe...
I'm trying to take this back!
What do you want from me, Liz?
I mean, I got a confession.
You're acting like I
beat it out of the guy.
Jim...
I'm sorry.
Like no one's ever had reason to
falsely confess?
Hey. I'm sorry about Foster.
Thanks.
So the guy that did this
gets banished
like he deserves.
Sorry, I, uh...
I know it sounds harsh.
No. Look, I know you want
justice for your friend,
but whatever happens, it's a
really sad day for the colony.
I mean, this place is supposed
to be a new beginning.
And I guess
I shouldn't be surprised
that some of the old
problems followed us here.
Howard Milner, you've confessed
to the murder of Ken Foster.
Do you have anything else
to say for yourself?
Ours is a colony of laws.
A violation such as murder is a
crime against every one of us.
Terra Nova cannot
survive unless we hold
ourselves... hold each other...
To standards higher than
our standards of the past.
With a heavy heart...
...I carry out this
judgment of banishment.
Taylor!
You know this is
a death sentence.
Isn't there another way?
The only way is forward,
for the good of the colony.
What we're building here...
There's no place for
a crime like this.
Just as we've come back
to remake this world,
we have to let
this world remake us.
If we can't dare to live lives
that are worthy of this
remarkable place,
well, we should have
just stayed in the future
to perish with the planet.
Milner, you have
a fighting chance out there.
That's more than
you gave Ken Foster.
Don't ever come back
to the colony.
You've made your own fate.
Now live or die with it.
Hey! Hey, whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa.
What are you doing here?
Take it easy.
Just put the weapon down.
So.
How you doing
out here so far?
I would be scared
out of my mind.
I mean, between the wildlife
and the Sixers,
there's a lot of ways
to die in this jungle.
Well, I... I deserve what I get.
I gotta admit,
I was surprised when Taylor
went through with the sentence.
Seemed like a lot
of people were.
What about you? Were you...
Were you surprised?
We have a law.
He followed it, so...
No.
Not sure I believe you, Howard.
I think you were surprised.
I think you were betting on
Taylor commuting the sentence.
I mean, it would have
been a lot easier
to be the hero
in a colony jail
than it is out here.
The hero?
What are you talking about?
Well, I saw the way you
and Rebecca were looking
at each other back there,
and it got me thinking.
I mean, what if she
killed Foster?
I know you're crazy about her.
The question is,
are you crazy enough to
fall on your sword for her
when it means facing
this jungle alone?
What do you want?
Howard!
I'm sorry.
I couldn't go through with it.
Go through with what?
I know Foster broke things off
with you a couple of weeks ago.
So, isn't that why you did it?
Did what?
Hang on, what... you...
You think I killed him?
What...? So, you didn't?
Of course not!
Is that why you confessed?
Well, I... I didn't want you
sent out there to die alone.
So, Howard,
when you confessed to me,
how did you know what to say?
I'd heard the details
of the crime
flying around the colony.
Whoever killed Foster clearly
had a reason to spread them.
But Rebecca...
Foster did end it with you.
To be honest,
I was happy that he did.
I'm better off without him.
Why is that?
He turned out to be a jerk.
He chose his friends,
and his drinking,
and his gambling over me.
Gambling?
It was all he cared about.
He was always over at
Boylan's playing cards.
There's quite a scene
over there.
But it's illegal, so people
stay pretty quiet about it.
Just what exactly were
you thinking, Shannon?
Look, you told me to do
my job, and I did.
Milner recanted his confession.
Well, how do you know he
didn't just take it back
'cause he got scared
to death out there?
My gut's telling me.
Oh. Oh, well,
why didn't you say so?
Commander, let me explain.
No, you let me explain.
Banishing Milner,
I put a huge chunk of my
reputation on the line.
You saw as well as I did,
not everybody was overjoyed
with my decision to stick to
the letter of the law on this,
and now you tell me that
I got the wrong guy?
But he's alive.
And I got a new lead.
So if we keep the Milner
return under wraps
just long enough for
me to follow it...
You do exactly that.
'Cause your gut's not
good enough on this.
You follow that new lead.
Otherwise, I guarantee you
I am bouncing Milner's ass
right back outside that gate.
Rotate ten degrees.
Stop.
There we go.
Almost there.
Amazing.
Shame Jim couldn't be here
to see you work your magic.
Well, surgery's not really
a spectator sport.
Well, with you
holding the knife,
it should be.
You're very sweet, but...
I'm sure Jim has many more
important things to do today
than watch me attempt
to alter nature's course.
Okay.
Uh... Foster's financials.
I've got them right here.
Looks like Rebecca was right
about what goes on at Boylan's.
That is interesting.
Look who owed Foster
a lot of money.
Okay.
Let's take it to Taylor.
He's going to want a real
confession this time.
Yeah. And I know
how to get it.
Mr. Sheriff!
Welcome back.
And Commander Taylor.
Now, what a pleasure.
You never darken my door.
Josh?
Hi, Dad.
What are you doing here?
I work here.
We're very impressed
with your boy.
Josh has already proven himself
a very worthy
member of the team.
We'll talk about that,
you bet your ass,
but first things first.
Boylan, I been looking forward
to saying this for a long time.
We're taking you in.
What are you doing?
You nuts?
You have never made a bigger
mistake in your life, Taylor.
Okay, get up.
Easy!
The long and the short of
it is this, Boylan:
You're going to come clean
about gambling at your place,
or I might have
to shut you down.
Oh, Commander.
Your loyal subjects
would just love that.
I created the one place in
Terra Nova that operates
just outside your grip.
Close my shop,
and see how people respond
when you take that away.
You run card games.
And we know you take a cut.
Are there card games that
take place under my roof?
Yeah.
Do I take a small
percentage off the top?
Well...
Define small.
Now, is that unreasonable?
No.
No, it is not.
Foster played at your shop,
didn't he?
Yeah. So?
Well, you don't
think I killed him.
- Did you?
- No.
Why would I?
Same reason you do everything.
Money.
See, Boylan,
colony financials told
us something good, but...
well, we dug deeper and
found something even better.
You keep off line
financial records.
Old-school.
On, on paper.
And they're going to tell us
everything we need to know
about you and Ken Foster.
Bar's closed.
You, too. Get out.
Get some air.
Josh, come here.
I want you to check
behind the bar,
in the back room, every inch.
That ledger's here somewhere.
Find it.
Today's your last day, buddy.
You're not working here.
Yes, I am.
No, no. There's no discussion.
You're always on me about
taking responsibility,
and then all of a sudden you
don't approve of the job I get?
No, it's not just
that this is a bar.
It's that you should have talked
to me and your mother first.
Why?
So you could just
shoot it down?
Either I'm supposed to
be an adult here, or I'm not.
You better get
your stories straight.
Tore the place apart.
If he's got that ledger,
it definitely isn't here.
Boylan ran. And he had help.
Let's go.
Move it out!
Let's go!
Wash, you copy?
Copy.
I want you and Reynolds
to check the security logs.
I want to know who
helped that scum.
You got anything on the scanner?
Yeah, life up ahead.
Hang on, sir.
Signal stopped moving, sir.
We're closing in on the signal.
Right up ahead.
Wash, what's the status
on that security cam?
Nothing yet.
I'm still scanning.
Copy that. Taylor out.
This is supposed to be the spot.
Signal's coming
from right here.
Boylan!
Well, maybe
the scanner's busted.
If I were a betting man,
I'd say he's not here.
You a betting man, Jim?
No, I am not.
But, Curran...
you are.
What are you
talking about?
The money you owe Foster.
Your account's been tapped.
Last four transactions
all payments made to Foster.
How much more
did you owe him, son?
How much couldn't you pay him?
You're way off, sir.
Now, you look me in the eye
and you tell me
you didn't kill Foster.
I didn't.
I didn't kill him.
You're lying.
Prove it.
I don't have to.
I know you did it.
I can tell.
The Boylan arrest was staged?
Yeah.
So, why'd you bring me out here?
Couldn't we have just
done this inside the gates?
No.
You didn't think
I'd give you a live one?
It's over.
One of my soldiers
kills one of our own?
I should separate your head
from your shoulders!
You didn't kill Foster?
You didn't
kill Foster?
No!
Then why'd you
steal this
from the bar, huh?
Except to hide the fact
that you owed Foster money.
You're staying here.
You can't do this.
I can, and I am.
No!
Are you out of your mind?!
You can't prove
I did anything.
We-We're going back, and
I get a court-martial.
You just had one.
Start walking.
With nothing?
No.
Sir, come on.
Well, you gave
Milner a gun.
You can't send me out
there with nothing!
Okay.
I'm going.
You think he'll survive
out there on his own?
I did.
It can be done.
Whatever happens,
I'm not gonna lose
any sleep over it.
Hell of a thing.
Him taking a fall
like that for her.
And him taking her back.
If that ain't love.
Hey, Boylan, thanks
for playing along today.
You know, that's the
first and last time
I do a favor for
you for free.
And here I was starting to think
you might actually
be good for something.
That man does not like you.
You could die trying
to please everybody.
Sounds good.
Where is everybody?
Uh, Zoe wanted to go
and watch the egg hatch,
so Mom took her over there.
Maddy called it
an early night.
Okay, and what are
you still doing here?
Aren't you
late for work?
You serious?
Look, uh, I would have
liked for you
to have talked to us
before taking this job,
but guess you're
old enough now
to start making
your own decisions.
Stay out of trouble
over there.
And, Josh, in
this family,
no secrets.
My dad changed his mind.
As long as you can pay
me, the deal's back on.
What the hell's she doing here?
She's not gonna tell anyone
she just wants to help.
Oh, great.
Well, there's a stack
of dirty dishes back at the bar.
Look, how much
do you trust Mira?
I don't.
But I've been told
I have issues.
Okay, well, you send him OTG
in the middle of the night
and he doesn't come back,
that's bad
for everyone.
You know he stands
a better chance with me.
Okay, you're meeting just
outside the perimeter mines,
so you should be
safe from predators.
But just in case,
take this.
Follow this map exactly,
and you'll get to
the rendezvous point.
Then what?
Then you pray Mira likes
surprises better than I do.
Should be
just up ahead.
Okay.
Hey, whoa.
I'm not going in there blind.
This way.
Where are they?
Behind those rocks.
I didn't ask for her.
You're right, you should
probably just
turn her loose.
- I'm not going anywhere.
- Enough!
You're the cop's kid.
Or Josh.
But "the cop's
kid" works.
For Boylan to
work his magic,
get your girl here,
he's got to be able
to talk to 2149.
Which means he's got
to go through me.
You want money, too, is that it?
Not money.
But someday I'm gonna ask
you to do something for me.
And when that day comes,
you'll comply without question.
Without hesitation.
Do we have a deal?
Yes. Yes.
Take them back to
where you found them
and point them home.
Hey.
Anything yet?
No, still waiting.
Where's Malcolmus?
He went home.
You did it, Mommy.
Very gently, very gently.
Can we keep him?
Can we? Just for
a little while?